README.md, before:

# webdev

## Installation

Simple Python 3 tools for managing websites.

### Manual

Download a zip file of the latest version from https://github.com/B3ginnersMind/webdev/zipball/main/

Download and unzip this zip file e.g. from a console using curl (use curl.exe in Powershell):

    curl -L -o webdev.zip https://github.com/B3ginnersMind/webdev/zipball/main/
    unzip webdev.zip

Go to the newly created subfolder *B3ginnersMind-webdev-xxxxxx* where xxxxxx is the tag of the downloaded revision. Copy the content to the desired location.

### Script supported

This is especially useful if you want to update webdev. Get the download script:

    curl -LJO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/B3ginnersMind/webdev/main/download_webdev.py

This script requires the Python "requests" package to perform the download. 

- Run *download_webdev.py*.
- The archive is then downloaded and unzipped.
- You will be asked whether you want to run the install script.
- If you run the install script, only the python files will be updated.
- This means that the readme and the sample files will not be copied.
- You can run *install_webdev.py* any time when you want to copy the python files again.

## show_dns.py in folder showdns

- Requires at least dnspython 2.x.
- Queries DNS records of a list of domains.
- Writes the results to text files.
- Show help with option -h and version with -v.
- exampleDomains.txt is a demo domain file.
- exampleHosts.txt is a demo file with knows hosts.

Possible commands resulting in file show_ips_exampleDomains.txt:

    show_dns.py exampleDomains.txt -ip
    show_dns.py exampleDomains.txt -k exampleHosts.txt -ns 8.8.8.8  -ip

Possible commands resulting in file show_dns_exampleDomains.txt:

    show_dns.py exampleDomains.txt
    show_dns.py exampleDomains.txt -k exampleHosts.txt -ns 8.8.8.8

### Version 1.0

Initial version

## website_manager.py in folder websitemanager

- Requires the pandas package to read ASCII tables.
- Manage backup and recovery of websites which use a database
  such as Wordpress, Joomla, Mediawiki, Drupal etc.
- Add a missing database and a missing database user to install 
  a new content management system.
- Show help with option -h and version with -v.
- Website backups are saved in zipped archives.
- Bulk backup and single snapshots are supported.
- Both automatic and interactive modes are supported.
- Two configuration files must be present in the same directory
  as website_manager.py:
  + *website_manager_params.txt* with the script configurations.
  + *website_table.txt* with the data of the managed websites.
- Copy and rename *demo_website_manager_params.txt* and 
  *demo_website_table.txt* to create your own configuration.
  These demo files contain further documentation.
- Website manager has been successfully applied with 
  MySQL 8 and MariaDB 15.

The following features are supported:

- saveall: bulk backup of the sites in the website table
- snapshot: save only one website
- replace: recover one website from a backup archive
- replace after snapshot: take a snapshot first, then recover
- prepare database: only prepare the database for a website

Snapshots are time stamped. Bulk backups are kept daily for a week,
weekly for a month, and monthly for a year. They are labeled with
wd#, w# and m# where # is an integer, wd denotes weekday, w denotes
week and m denotes month. Bulk backups are intended to be run as 
nightly cronjobs.

### Version 1.0

Initial version

Commit message:

add improved website manager version 1.1

README.md, after:

# webdev

## Installation

Simple Python tools for managing websites. Tested with Python 3.10.12.

### Manual installation

Download a zip file of the latest version from https://github.com/B3ginnersMind/webdev/zipball/main/

Download and unzip this zip file e.g. from a console using curl (use curl.exe in Powershell):

    curl -L -o webdev.zip https://github.com/B3ginnersMind/webdev/zipball/main/
    unzip webdev.zip

Go to the newly created subfolder *B3ginnersMind-webdev-xxxxxx* where xxxxxx is the tag of the downloaded revision. Copy the content to the desired location.

### Script supported installation

This is especially useful if you want to update webdev. Get the download script:

    curl -LJO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/B3ginnersMind/webdev/main/download_webdev.py

This script requires the Python "requests" package to perform the download. 

- Run *download_webdev.py*.
- The archive is then downloaded and unzipped.
- You will be asked whether you want to run the install script.
- If you run the install script, only the python files will be updated.
- This means that the readme and the sample files will not be copied.
- You can run *install_webdev.py* any time when you want to copy the python files again.

## show_dns.py in folder showdns

- Requires at least dnspython 2.x.
- Queries DNS records of a list of domains.
- Writes the results to text files.
- Show help with option -h and version with -v.
- exampleDomains.txt is a demo domain file.
- exampleHosts.txt is a demo file with knows hosts.

Possible commands resulting in file show_ips_exampleDomains.txt:

    show_dns.py exampleDomains.txt -ip
    show_dns.py exampleDomains.txt -k exampleHosts.txt -ns 8.8.8.8  -ip

Possible commands resulting in file show_dns_exampleDomains.txt:

    show_dns.py exampleDomains.txt
    show_dns.py exampleDomains.txt -k exampleHosts.txt -ns 8.8.8.8

### Version 1.0

Initial version

## website_manager.py in folder websitemanager

- Requires the pandas package to read ASCII tables.
- Manage backup and recovery of websites which use a database
  such as Wordpress, Joomla, Mediawiki, Drupal etc.
- Add a missing database and a missing database user to install 
  a new content management system.
- Show help with option -h and version with -v.
- Website backups are saved in zipped archives.
- Bulk backup and single snapshots are supported.
- Both automatic and interactive modes are supported.
- Two configuration files must be present in the same directory
  as website_manager.py:
  + *website_manager_params.txt* with the script configurations.
  + *website_table.txt* with the data of the managed websites.
- Copy and rename *demo_website_manager_params.txt* and 
  *demo_website_table.txt* to create your own configuration.
  These demo files contain further documentation.
- Website manager has been successfully applied with 
  MySQL 8 and MariaDB 15.

The following features are supported:

- saveall: bulk backup of the sites in the website table
- snapshot: save only one website
- replace: recover one website from a backup archive
- replace after snapshot: take a snapshot first, then recover
- prepare database: only prepare the database for a website

Snapshots are time stamped. Bulk backups are kept daily for a week,
weekly for a month, and monthly for a year. They are labeled with
wd#, w# and m# where # is an integer, wd denotes weekday, w denotes
week and m denotes month. Bulk backups are intended to be run as 
nightly cronjobs.

### Version 1.0

Initial version

### Version 1.1

- Treated website may be entered by argument for all modes dealing with a single website.
- An alternative folder path for snapshots may be entered.
- Improved output of available backup archives in the restore mode.
- Improved logfile handling. The logfile folder may be configured.
